# Does “Add on” achieve its goal for killing time in a fun way for a small group of people?
The goal of the minigames was for a group of people to kill some time, for example while waiting for the bus, with some social interaction. The game should provide a way for multiple people to play with or against each other.

## How did I solve this?
A play session was planned, during this play session every group would test their minigames with other groups. The way Add on was tested, was by getting a group of people together and having 1 person explaining the game, after that we would play. Add on has been played with 2 different groups of 8-10 people (the game can be played with as few or many players as you want). 

## What is the result?
With these 2 groups, multiple rounds have been played, it was the people who were participating that wanted  to keep playing. I see this as positive feedback, this means the game could keep
people busy for a period of time.   
I observed how people reacted when their turn came and noticed a concerned expression in combination with a smile, this often was accompanied by the words “I hope this is correct”. Since the sequence got longer each turn, the later in the round you were up the harder it was to continue the game, especially since you couldn’t always see how a sequence had started (if you were on the opposite side of the circle).  
During this play session 1 bug had been found, but it was not possible to recreate this bug after this 1 occasion.

## What is the quality of the result?
Since the play session included people from various groups in the advanced game design class, including teachers, the game has been played by industry professionals. However, without a survey at the time, we couldn’t record participants’ thoughts, so I can only write about what was said during the session. Because of this, I can't fully verify that the goal has been reached. However from the things that were said during this session and feedback that has been received by word, the goal seemed to be accomplished.

## What is the next step now that I have this result?
Since this was the end of this 1 week project there will be no next step for improving this game.

## DOT
|[Library](https://ictresearchmethods.nl/library/)|[Field](https://ictresearchmethods.nl/Field/)|[Lab](https://ictresearchmethods.nl/Lab/)|[Showroom](https://ictresearchmethods.nl/Showroom/)|[Workshop](https://ictresearchmethods.nl/Workshop/)|
|:-----:|:---:|:-:|:------:|:------:|
|  | Observation | Usability testing | Peer review |  |
