# How should the indicators be made in Unity?
When a game is being developed there are almost always multiple solutions for a single problem, in this case I want to find out the best way to show ability indicators in Crusadeon. What fits best with our game and is scalable so it can be reused and improved easily.

I looked up different tutorials to see how other people made their indicators. I came across two interesting ways of doing this, the first was to use a canvas and rotate it to follow the cursor position. The other one was to use unity projectors. 
|Topic|Source|
|:-:|:-:|
|Projector|JesseEtzler. (2018, 4 februari). Unity RPG Tutorial - Projector Effects [Video]. YouTube. https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oZX5UAru3CY |
|Canvas|Vinny. (2023b, april 25). Making a MOBA character in 2023 - #4: ABILITY INDICATORS (Unity 2023 tutorial) [Video]. YouTube. https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=P5uMS0mQ_Hc|
## Canvas
In the tutorial I found on this method a canvas is placed at the player’s position and an image is placed on said canvas. Since the player won’t always have the same abilities, each run the scale of both the canvas and image used on the canvas would need to be scaled separately. There is also a risk with the canvas not always fully covering the ground beneath the player, because of the camera angle, and other abilities not scaling correctly because of different screen sizes. Another downside of using this method would be that it ignores everything in the game world, the canvas images will go through enemies or buildings and also won’t warp to the shape of the ground. This could make it look like your indicator is not part of the world of Crusadeon.
## Projectors
By looking further into the projectors this seems to be the better solution, since it will project an image of choosing onto the specified layers you choose. This way it will ignore enemies and strictly stick to the ground as well as warp around the ground if it is uneven. In comparison to using a canvas which will have a set height and will go through enemies and walls all the time. There will be no problem for people with larger/smaller screen sizes, since it is an object in world space and to scale the image only one component needs to be changed. Since it is a component in world space it will also be easier to move around for abilities that are required to follow the current mouse position.


|Extra info on use of decals and projectors|
|:--------:|
|Technologies, U. (z.d.-a). Unity - Manual: Decals and projectors. https://docs.unity3d.com/Manual/visual-effects-decals.html|
|Brackeys. (2019, 13 januari). MAKE YOUR LEVELS PRETTIER with Decals! [Video]. YouTube. https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8dejKSbADqE| 



## Conclusion
Given the benefits of accurate terrain alignment, ease of scaling, and consistency across different screen sizes, using Unity projectors is the better solution for implementing ability indicators in Crusadeon. This method aligns better with the game’s design goals, ensuring indicators integrate seamlessly into the game world and enhance the overall player experience.
