# Rogue Ape Studio Retrospectives
- [Retrospective Sprint 1](#retrospective-sprint-1)
- [Retrospective Sprint 2](#retrospective-sprint-2)
- [Retrospective Sprint 3](#retrospective-sprint-3)
- [Retrospective sprint 4](#retrospective-sprint-4)

## Retrospective sprint 1  
 
### Personal thoughts 
#### Davey 
- The good: Good start. Group is quick on the pace regarding progressing project. We also had a good team building event when we went to the Escape Room. 
- The not so good: Had to get used to strict git rules.  
- What could be improved: Our SCRUM board was a little difficult to read when we had a lot of tasks in the Todo list.  
 
#### Tim 
- The good: Good that we set down a lot of defined rules.  
- The not so good: I had to get used to code convention.  
- What could be improved: It could be better how we handle pull requests. Currently (especially if it's an online day), we don’t always get notified right away if we are assigned a PR. I think that could be better. 
 
#### Willem 
- The good: It was easy to see the assignments I could work on in the SCRUM board. Getting feedback for my work was also usually done quickly with the use of Discord. 
- The not so good: I sometimes felt a bit lost about what I could do next after I finished my tasks. I always needed to check with someone what I actually needed to do next. 
- What could be improved: It would be nice if I could get a whole list of tasks that I could do, and in what order to do them in. SCRUM board only shows the art-related tasks but not what is actually needed at the moment. 
 
#### Paul 
- The good: Learned a lot since the start of the project. I’m happy with the pace I’m working at now.  
- The not so good: The code convention is something I struggled with at the start quite a bit, but I am getting better at it now.  
- What could be improved: Can’t really think of anything now. I’m satisfied with how things are now.   
 
#### Nathan 
- The good: I appreciate that the group members are working often and that the progress is running ahead of schedule. A welcome change compared to other group assignments I worked on.  
- The not so good: Nothing major. The project suffered a bit at the beginning regarding the code convention and some issues with branching on git, but such things are expected.  
- What could be improved: That a bit more attention is paid to the code convention. This saves me, and everyone else, quite a bit of time since Pull Requests do not need to be denied because they do not follow the code convention.  
 
#### Sander 
- The good: Group members are highly motivated and can be seen in the overall progress going quite fast.  
- The not so good: There were a couple of moments when communication between members regarding being late/absent were lacking.  
- What could be improved: That a bit more attention is paid to notifying others if something is up which would cause them to either be late or absent.  
 
### Actions to take to improve Sprint 2 
- For the SCRUM board we can attach a certain type to a task card. This type makes it so we can apply filters which only shows tasks of that certain type (example only showing programming related tasks to our programmers) 
- Nathan is going to be added to every PR on git for the upcoming week to ensure the group follows the code convention.  
- When adding someone to a PR on git, send them a quick message on Discord/MS Teams to notify them about it right away. 

## Retrospective sprint 2
#### Davey
- Good: The team kept up a good work pace.
- Bad: We focused a little too much on the visual side of things which caused us not to have a finished item system for the 1st playtest.
- What to change: We need to be a bit stricter with following the priority list of tasks per sprint. 
A small change/nitpick is that we should try to keep the branches smaller. 

#### Tim
- Good: We paid more attention to the code convention, so less time is wasted due to making changes. 
- Bad: Did not focus enough on coming up with more tasks for our artist.
- What to change: That we should have a sprint board for the art side of things. 

#### Paul
- Good: I think we are making pretty good progress compared to the other groups
- Bad: The item system is still not in our game even though it’s an important part of our game.
- What to change: We should prioritize certain things better, such as keeping our plans on schedule

#### Sander
- Good: Feels like the group is still highly motivated even after 4 weeks of high paced work. 
- Bad: My personal circumstances have led me to be extremely busy, which has caused me to feel exhausted often and my productivity has gone down. 
- What to change: 

#### Willem
- Good: Group seems to still work pretty hard and a lot gets done.
- Bad: Decisions on things like brand colors took a little too long and it caused me to be stuck in my workflow.
- What to change: Vote on things faster and have the creative director step in sooner when votes are a tie (again)

#### Nathan
- Good: Better handling of the conventions. Means there is less menial work during review.
- Bad: Some unknown attendance, or people not giving a heads up.
- What to change: Take a peek at DoTween, it could genuinely help out a bunch in the (near) future.

### Actions to take to improve Sprint 3
- Think about the aesthetics. A lot of people want to take challenge but it's hard to convey that properly. What is our 2nd aesthetic? After explanation it seemed like it was sensation we were describing.
- Submission could be achieved through means to keep the player playing longer. Example of this would be giving the player an item granting them a 2nd chance to keep the run going.
Olaf played our game during the playtest and could already see more or less where our game was heading.
- Give Willem concrete goals for the coming sprints, so he doesn't have to continuesly ask us for tasks.

## Retrospective sprint 3 
#### Davey 
- Good: The animations and visual effects are looking great.  
- Bad: I wanted to achieve more in this sprint. The visual effects took longer to get right than I would have liked. 
- To improve: Reemphasising the notice of being too late. There were a lot of moments where people were late but they did not let this be known on time.  
 
#### Tim 
- Good: The things I mentioned in my previous retrospective have been improved.  
- Bad: I spent a lot of time on bug fixes. Of course these are important to fix but I can’t help but feel like some time was wasted here. 
- To improve: Try to prevent bugs with old features when adding new features, so we don't have to go back and fix the interaction later.  
 
#### Paul 
- Good: I have learned a lot about enemy AI behaviour. It works now so I’m happy about that.  
- Bad: I spent a lot of time trying to solve this annoying bug that I’m still not fully done with.  
- To improve: Test more thoroughly  so we have less bugs that get pushed to develop branch. 
 
#### Sander 
- Good: Visual improvements to the game were amazing. Very happy with those.  
- Bad: My own progress was terrible this sprint. I took way too long with the sound effects, and it still wasn’t good. I also wanted to have an initial draft for our business plan but that is still far away from complete.  
- To improve: I need to stop wasting so much time. I keep changing tasks when I get stuck with something but then I end up with multiple unfinished works instead of 1.  
 
#### Nathan 
- Good: I did not need to remind people about the code convention at all.  
- Bad: I’m not too happy about the fact that I was sick during the majority of this sprint. I have a feeling that I could not achieve enough. 
- To improve: We need to pay more attention to each other’s activities. There were cases of items being worked on for far too long.  
 
#### Willem 
- Good: The game looks good, and I have a lot of tasks to work on.  
- Bad: The vacation caused me to get stuck in my progress for a bit too long.  
- To improve: I need to try to not sleep in as much.

### Actions to take to improve Sprint 4
- We need to keep an eye on our own and others tasks, when a task is taking too long we need to take action. If it is someone else, we need to speak with them, if it is you speak up about what you're having trouble with.
- We need to better future proof our code, this will prevent bugs when new features are added and will save time, which in turn will help with the point mentioned above.

## Retrospective sprint 4 
#### Davey 
- Good: Pitch presentation and the trailer was good. We got 2 yay’s from the dragons and I am happy with that.  
- Bad: Due to our inexperience with the domain, the business plan felt quite weak. And our 2 nays where do to this. 
- To improve: We need to further improve our actual plan for what we want from our game. So, we need to look back at our 10 pager and maybe change some stuff. 

#### Nathan 
- Good: We managed to finish the pitch presentation quite quickly, which left a fair bit of room for practice and adjustment. 
- Bad: We weren't exactly on one line with the elevator pitch, which was far from ideal. The business plan, despite our best efforts, was on the weaker side of things. 
- To improve: What is the core concept of the game, work those aspects out, as well as properly implement the MDA Framework. 

#### Paul 
- Good: We were able to finish the pitch presentation quite fast and the dragons den event went well.  
-Bad: There were a few things that were brought up during the feedback that we did not really have a proper answer to. 
-To improve: To pay a bit more attention to the feedback we received from the dragons. Some of it seemed a little inconsequential however it may be more important than what we initially believed.   

#### Sander 
- Good: I was able to give a nice practice pitch and feel like I was able to cut down 20 minutes worth of information into an interesting and comprehensive pitch.  
- Bad: Due to a small mistake right before the actual pitch, one of my opening slides was missing and it threw me off completely. Because of this I was an extremely nervous wreck throughout the pitch and couldn’t answer some of the questions even though I had prepared for them.  
- To improve: One of the dragons did point out that it was clear that we took inspiration from a lot of different games but couldn’t really see what made ours unique or stand out. We can probably rectify this if we pay more attention to the MDA framework when making design decisions.  

#### Tim 
- Good: since our practice pitch went so well, we could commit some more time to refining a few things. I was able to add a few more ambient lightings as well as better borders to the game.  
- Bad: My tasks from the first week of the sprint did not feel very fruitful because none of it ended up working at all. This was making the transitions between animations seem more fluid, however it all ended up still being quite choppy. 
- To improve: Not to be too overconfident. We were feeling quite confident with our game because of the overwhelmingly positive feedback we got during the practice pitch. This made us a little too complacent.    
 
### Actions to take to improve Sprint 5
- Try to focus more on the MDA framework and design of the overall game. This should be done by implementing the feedback from the dragons and teachers.
- Stick better to sprint planning.

## Retrospective sprint 5

#### Davey 
- **Good:** Even though we had to work on our portfolios a lot in this sprint, thereby also not having a lot of time we were able to finish our game with the minimal requirements from our definition of done. 
- **Bad:** Due to our lack of time, our code got a lot sloppier, and we did not follow all the code conventions to finish the final product.  
- **To improve:** For my next project, I want to focus more on testing the mechanics of the game early and making a fully working game before adding the visuals. This time that was hard due to the dragon's den where we wanted to show a good-looking game.  

#### Sander 
- **Good:** Despite how little time we had, we were still able to finish all our minimum Definition of Done goals that we presented during Sprint 1. As the scrum master of the group, it made me quite happy to see that our goals were reached, despite some of them being quite ambitious. This was by far the most enjoyable group I had the pleasure to work with in all my time at Fontys so far.  
- **Bad:** During Sprint 2, I came down with a nasty lung infection and my recovery has not been going too well. Looking back, I believe that my overall health has taken a hit with how many responsibilities I have in my life outside of school and I feel like I’m at the onset of a burnout. This caused my work speed to slow down, and I wasn’t able to finish the extra bits I had initially set out to do.  
- **To improve:** I need to utilize rapid prototyping sooner and more often in my next project. I believe my own work could have had an overall higher level of quality if I had utilized the technique by strengthening my design choices and having more time on my hands to iterate on my designs.  

#### Tim 
- **Good:** We got a lot done in a short time and finished our minimum requirements, while also all updating our portfolios and implementing the feedback we received during the portfolio reviews.  
- **Bad:** By doing so much in such a short time, the quality of some of the work and process was reduced. This resulted in some bugs and a bit of a messier workflow.  
- **To improve:** Since this is the last retrospective, looking back on the whole project, we should plan out our scope better and design our core systems from the start. These two things have caused us the most trouble in my opinion while also being problems that could easily be resolved for future projects.  

#### Paul 
- **Good:** The boss fight has been implemented. Together with the rest of the game, we managed to get playtest the whole game. It is almost an entirely playable experience from beginning to end.  
- **Bad:** We found a notable sum of bugs during the playtest. A lot of them had to get patched along the playtest. Because of this, the code we produced was quick but also not as clean as we like.  
- **To improve:** Test the final build more thoroughly before the playtest.  

#### Nathan (not needed, since he was absent this sprint)
- **Good:**   
- **Bad:**   
- **To improve:**   

### Actions to take to improve Sprint 6
- There will be no sprint 6, this is the end of the project.
- Overall things to improve:
 - Start with designing core systems, so they are extendable.
 - Try to scale the scope of the project better. (This already got a lot better after the dragons den)
