# Rogue Ape Studio Retrospectives
- [Retrospective Sprint 1](#retrospective-sprint-1)
- [Retrospective Sprint 2](#retrospective-sprint-2)
- [Retrospective Sprint 3](#retrospective-sprint-3)


## Retrospective sprint 1  
 
### Personal thoughts 
#### Davey 
- The good: Good start. Group is quick on the pace regarding progressing project. We also had a good team building event when we went to the Escape Room. 
- The not so good: Had to get used to strict git rules.  
- What could be improved: Our SCRUM board was a little difficult to read when we had a lot of tasks in the Todo list.  
 
#### Tim 
- The good: Good that we set down a lot of defined rules.  
- The not so good: I had to get used to code convention.  
- What could be improved: It could be better how we handle pull requests. Currently (especially if it's an online day), we don’t always get notified right away if we are assigned a PR. I think that could be better. 
 
#### Willem 
- The good: It was easy to see the assignments I could work on in the SCRUM board. Getting feedback for my work was also usually done quickly with the use of Discord. 
- The not so good: I sometimes felt a bit lost about what I could do next after I finished my tasks. I always needed to check with someone what I actually needed to do next. 
- What could be improved: It would be nice if I could get a whole list of tasks that I could do, and in what order to do them in. SCRUM board only shows the art-related tasks but not what is actually needed at the moment. 
 
#### Paul 
- The good: Learned a lot since the start of the project. I’m happy with the pace I’m working at now.  
- The not so good: The code convention is something I struggled with at the start quite a bit, but I am getting better at it now.  
- What could be improved: Can’t really think of anything now. I’m satisfied with how things are now.   
 
#### Nathan 
- The good: I appreciate that the group members are working often and that the progress is running ahead of schedule. A welcome change compared to other group assignments I worked on.  
- The not so good: Nothing major. The project suffered a bit at the beginning regarding the code convention and some issues with branching on git, but such things are expected.  
- What could be improved: That a bit more attention is paid to the code convention. This saves me, and everyone else, quite a bit of time since Pull Requests do not need to be denied because they do not follow the code convention.  
 
#### Sander 
- The good: Group members are highly motivated and can be seen in the overall progress going quite fast.  
- The not so good: There were a couple of moments when communication between members regarding being late/absent were lacking.  
- What could be improved: That a bit more attention is paid to notifying others if something is up which would cause them to either be late or absent.  
 
### Actions to take to improve Sprint 2 
- For the SCRUM board we can attach a certain type to a task card. This type makes it so we can apply filters which only shows tasks of that certain type (example only showing programming related tasks to our programmers) 
- Nathan is going to be added to every PR on git for the upcoming week to ensure the group follows the code convention.  
- When adding someone to a PR on git, send them a quick message on Discord/MS Teams to notify them about it right away. 

## Retrospective sprint 2
#### Davey
- Good: The team kept up a good work pace.
- Bad: We focused a little too much on the visual side of things which caused us not to have a finished item system for the 1st playtest.
- What to change: We need to be a bit stricter with following the priority list of tasks per sprint. 
A small change/nitpick is that we should try to keep the branches smaller. 

#### Tim
- Good: We paid more attention to the code convention, so less time is wasted due to making changes. 
- Bad: Did not focus enough on coming up with more tasks for our artist.
- What to change: That we should have a sprint board for the art side of things. 

#### Paul
- Good: I think we are making pretty good progress compared to the other groups
- Bad: The item system is still not in our game even though it’s an important part of our game.
- What to change: We should prioritize certain things better, such as keeping our plans on schedule

#### Sander
- Good: Feels like the group is still highly motivated even after 4 weeks of high paced work. 
- Bad: My personal circumstances have led me to be extremely busy, which has caused me to feel exhausted often and my productivity has gone down. 
- What to change: 

#### Willem
- Good: Group seems to still work pretty hard and a lot gets done.
- Bad: Decisions on things like brand colors took a little too long and it caused me to be stuck in my workflow.
- What to change: Vote on things faster and have the creative director step in sooner when votes are a tie (again)

#### Nathan
- Good: Better handling of the conventions. Means there is less menial work during review.
- Bad: Some unknown attendance, or people not giving a heads up.
- What to change: Take a peek at DoTween, it could genuinely help out a bunch in the (near) future.

### Actions to take to improve Sprint 3
- Think about the aesthetics. A lot of people want to take challenge but it's hard to convey that properly. What is our 2nd aesthetic? After explanation it seemed like it was sensation we were describing.
- Submission could be achieved through means to keep the player playing longer. Example of this would be giving the player an item granting them a 2nd chance to keep the run going.
Olaf played our game during the playtest and could already see more or less where our game was heading. 

## Retrospective sprint 3 
#### Davey 
- Good: The animations and visual effects are looking great.  
- Bad: I wanted to achieve more in this sprint. The visual effects took longer to get right than I would have liked. 
- To improve: Reemphasising the notice of being too late. There were a lot of moments where people were late but they did not let this be known on time.  
 
#### Tim 
- Good: The things I mentioned in my previous retrospective have been improved.  
- Bad: I spent a lot of time on bug fixes. Of course these are important to fix but I can’t help but feel like some time was wasted here. 
- To improve: Try to prevent bugs with old features when adding new features, so we don't have to go back and fix the interaction later.  
 
#### Paul 
- Good: I have learned a lot about enemy AI behaviour. It works now so I’m happy about that.  
- Bad: I spent a lot of time trying to solve this annoying bug that I’m still not fully done with.  
- To improve: Test more thoroughly  so we have less bugs that get pushed to develop branch. 
 
#### Sander 
- Good: Visual improvements to the game were amazing. Very happy with those.  
- Bad: My own progress was terrible this sprint. I took way too long with the sound effects, and it still wasn’t good. I also wanted to have an initial draft for our business plan but that is still far away from complete.  
- To improve: I need to stop wasting so much time. I keep changing tasks when I get stuck with something but then I end up with multiple unfinished works instead of 1.  
 
#### Nathan 
- Good: I did not need to remind people about the code convention at all.  
- Bad: I’m not too happy about the fact that I was sick during the majority of this sprint. I have a feeling that I could not achieve enough. 
- To improve: We need to pay more attention to each other’s activities. There were cases of items being worked on for far too long.  
 
#### Willem 
- Good: The game looks good, and I have a lot of tasks to work on.  
- Bad: The vacation caused me to get stuck in my progress for a bit too long.  
- To improve: I need to try to not sleep in as much.  
 

