# Modular Arcade Kart 

As my deep dive challenge I want to create a github repo/unity package, that allows game developers to easily set up an arcade kart for their arcade racing game. This entails that multiple karts/characters can be created based on a base kart and stats can be modified to create a different feel for every kart. The stats will be made with scriptable objects, to allow for easy stat modification and different behaviours.
The behaviours that will be editable entail things like:  
- Speed 
- Acceleration 
- Turning radius 
- Drifting (sharpness) 
- Auto drift or manual drift 
- Sliding out 
- Bumping
- Speed boosts 
- Slow downs

__Design Challenge:__   
Implement a modular kart customization system with scriptable objects for adjustable stats and behaviors, allowing game developers to easily create diverse arcade karts within a Unity package/github repo.

## How did I solve this?
To start I looked at games I wanted my project to be based off of. I landed on 3 games that represent what I want to create and be able to modify, these games are:
- [Mario Kart Wii](./2.%20Karting%20Game%20Analysis.md#mario-kart)
- [Sonic and Sega All Stars Racing](./2.%20Karting%20Game%20Analysis.md#sonic-and-sega-all-stars-racing)
- [Pac-man (World) Rally](./2.%20Karting%20Game%20Analysis.md#pac-man-rally)

I looked into the driving mechanics, dynamics and aesthetics of each of these games to create a scope of what I will create for the deep dive. I came to the conclusion that besides focussing on the acceleration, top speed, reversing and steering, the drifting mechanic and receiving a boost from the drift were the next most important parts. So I advised myself to leave bumping, slowdowns and automatic drifting on the backburner and focus on these parts.

The next challenge was to choose what system to use to make the actual karts, I researched multiple different ways to do this, and this can be read in [this document](./3.%20Kart%20System.md). I came to the conclusion to just use force on a rigid body and turning it to simulate a kart fit the best for my project.
## What is the result?
The result can be viewed in [this public repository](https://github.com/Timsel1/Modular-Arcade-Karts). It shows my modular karts and includes an extensive user guide on how to implement the necessary libraries and explanations of every option the system provides with gifs that show the effects.

## What is the quality of the result?
As far as I know, at the moment of writing, only some members of Rogue Ape Studio have tested this project. From this testing some bugs have come to light and been fixed. They have also read my user guide, this way I could make sure the steps were clear and the functionalities were well explained.

## What is the next step now that I have this result?
I will leave this project as is for now. If I ever decide to create a karting game I will use it again and improve it where it is necessary.
