# Game Analysis

## Content
- [Mario Kart](#mario-kart)
- [Sonic and Sega All Stars Racing](#sonic-and-sega-all-stars-racing)
- [Pac-Man Rally](#pac-man-rally)

## Mario Kart
Mario Kart Wii, released in 2008 for the Nintendo Wii console, is one entry in the long-running Mario Kart series. It combines the charm of Mario characters and settings with fast paced racing gameplay, making it the second most sold game for the Nintendo Wii.

### Aesthetics 
Mario Kart’s aesthetics are:
- Competition:
Since Mario kart is a racing game, people naturally want to win, beating your opponents is one of the goals of the game. Players can even play in online lobbies to try and beat/be the best.

- Fellowship:
Mario kart was released on the Wii, a family gaming console. The game could be played with friends and family in the split screen mode.

- Submission:
Players will improve over time, one of the challenges in the game are its time trials. A player is able to unlock expert time trial ghosts by improving their time on a map. Records are also kept track of, improving to beat a record could take a long time.  
(https://www.mkleaderboards.com/mkw/charts/world/nonsc/12)

### Dynamics
Since I'm creating modular karts, I will be focusing on the aesthetics competition and submission. Since these aesthetics focus mostly on how well the player can/will do, which in turn changes their driving behaviour.

- Hop Trick: 
Gain extra height for a jump by pressing the hop (drift) and trick button at the same time. This can be used to skip certain parts of maps.  
Arcintel. (2019, 11 oktober). Understanding the Jump Trick (Hop Trick) - Mario Kart Wii [Video]. YouTube. https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Xeh8oPLUaP4 

- Hop Skips:
Using a boost (mini-turbo, mushroom, etc) and hopping, parts of maps can be skipped. This is done without using a trick since the parts of the map where this is used don't have a jump thus the player cannot perform a trick. (e.g. the last turn on the map mushroom gorge)

- Neutral Hopping: 
This is simply hopping without any other button input. It is best used on uphill sections, preserves mini-turbo speed and can also adjust your vehicle’s angle coming out of a boost section.

- Bunny Hopping / Fire Hopping: 
This only works on flat or uphill ground. For this technique players hop left or right multiple times after a speed boost, increasing the length of time at a greater speed. It can also help you to realign if you are too tight or wide leaving the corner.

- Slip Drift:
A strategy that is used to start a drift, without doing a full hop. Since a drift starts after a hop, skipping the hop would make your drift start quicker, this way less time is spent to get a mini-turbo.  
TWD98. (2019, 9 mei). Mario Kart WII - Slip Drift Tutorial [Video]. YouTube. https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DPTAWBskER0 

- Delayed Drifting:
After performing a wheelie, hop and wait a short period of time to steer in the direction you want to drift. This way a mini-turbo can be obtained quicker.  
TWD98. (2019a, februari 10). How to drive FASTER in Mario Kart WII (Delayed Drifting) [Video]. YouTube. https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=NCxqZLE7uGM 


### Driving mechanics
- Accelerate:  
When drivers hold down the corresponding button, the vehicle goes forward. Accelerating time depends on the type of karts: 
  - Lightweight karts have a high acceleration but low speed. 
  - Heavyweight karts tend to have a low acceleration but a high top speed. 
  - Middleweight karts tend to have an average top speed and acceleration.

- Steer:  
Steering lets drivers move around corners.

- Brake:  
Braking slows the vehicle to an abrupt stop.

- Reverse:  
The driver's kart goes backwards if the driver continues holding the brake button after the vehicle comes to a stop. If a vehicle reaches maximum top speed, the vehicle will drift instead. If the player tries to accelerate while going in reverse, the vehicle will start to build momentum. When blue sparks start to appear, the player can release the brakes to get a small speed of boost.

- Look Behind:  
Drivers can look behind their vehicles. In this way, drivers can be alert from other drivers incoming to steal their place. Drivers can also use this feature to see where they are going while backing up, or to aim a weapon at an opponent following up.

- Drift:  
Drivers drift to keep the vehicle's speed and take corners more easily, with the benefit of getting Mini-Turbos. The feature can be set to happen automatically or when a button is held, although Mini-Turbos cannot be obtained on the automatic setting.  
There are also 2 types of drift in this game, known as inside drift and outside drift. The difference is that inside drift takes much sharper corners than outside drift. Inside drift is only available on a certain amout of bikes.

- Slipstream:
By driving behind other player for a period of time, the player can obtain slipstream, giving them a small speed boost for a short period of time.

- Rocket Start:  
Drivers can perform a speed boost when a race begins. If drivers hold down the corresponding acceleration button right after the countdown timer displays the number 2, then they will receive an extra speed boost when the word "GO!" appears on the screen. However, if drivers hold down the button for too long, when the final beep is heard, their engine bursts and they get an even worse start than a regular one and take a few seconds to recover.

- Mini-Turbo:  
When drivers drift for a reasonable amount of time depending on the vehicle used, blue sparks erupt from the vehicle's rear tires. Releasing the drift button gives them a short burst of speed. In a kart, drivers can keep drifting for longer periods to get orange sparks and a longer boost. However, orange sparks cannot be created on bikes. The amount of time the player must drift also depends on the vehicle's drifting stats. Drivers can also perform a "standing Mini-Turbo" by holding the brake/drift and acceleration buttons at the same time. This is helpful for vehicles with slow acceleration, as it will get the vehicle to top speed. A Mini-Turbo cannot be performed when drifting is set to automatic, but the standing Mini-Turbo can.

- Jumps:  
If players jump over ramps or mushrooms, the length of the jump can be controlled by Control Pad up (shorter jump) and Control Pad down (longer jump).

- Tricks:  
Drivers can pull off a trick when they jump in order to gain a momentary Mini-Turbo.They obtain a speed boost when landing.

- Wheelie:  
Wheelies can be performed only when drivers are riding bikes. Drivers can increase their speed by lifting up the fronts of their bikes. While drivers perform a wheelie, the bike cannot be easily steered. The wheelie can be ended by braking, hopping, waiting for the wheelie to end, or simply setting the Wii Wheel or Wii Remote back down. If drivers are bumped into while they are performing a wheelie, they lose most of their speed. If they wheelie again right as their wheelie runs out, they can get a chain wheelie.

Wiki, S. M. (2024, 27 april). Mario Kart Wii - Super Mario Wiki, the Mario encyclopedia.
Super Mario Wiki. https://www.mariowiki.com/Mario_Kart_Wii#Gameplay 


## Pac-Man Rally
Pac-Man World Rally, released in 2006 for PlayStation 2, PlayStation Portable, GameCube, and PC, is a kart racing game featuring the iconic characters from the Pac-Man franchise. It offers a unique spin on the traditional kart racing genre by incorporating elements from the Pac-Man universe, including classic characters, power-ups, and themed tracks.

### Aesthetics 
Pac-Man Rally’s aesthetics are:
- Competition:
Since Pac-Man Rally is a racing game, people naturally want to win, beating your opponents is one of the goals of the game.

- Fellowship:
Pac-Man Rally could be played with friends and family in the split screen mode, making for a fun social experience.

- Submission:
Players will improve over time, one of the challenges in the game are its time trials. By practicing a track over and over a player can beat their personal best time, this requires knowledge of the game's mechanics and dynamics to perfect.

### Dynamics:
- Hop Skip:
Using a hop to skip a part of a map or make a part faster than driving it as intended. I couldn’t find anything about this online, but by playing the game again I have found 1 track where this was possible. On the map “Jungle Safari” a hop can be performed in the uphill, if done right this will result in leaving the ground for a short period of time and landing way earlier and receiving a boost.

- Taking the fastest racing lines:
People try to get the best times they can on tracks.

- Drifting as much as possible:
People try to get the best times they can on tracks. Since drifts give you speed boosts, drifting whenever  you can gives the fastest time.

### Driving Mechanics
- Steering:
You steer left and right with the left analog stick to get around corners.

- Accelerate:
Done with the X button (on the PlayStation 2 controller), makes the player go forward. 


- Brake:
Done with the square button, slows down the kart until it stops. 

- Reverse:
Hold the brake button to go backwards.
- Fire weapon
Done with the L1 button, uses the item that is in the player's first slot at time.

- Drift:
The hop button (R1 on the PS2 controller) will let you add some extra air when tackling jumps. While on the ground and holding down the player can drift. Drifting for an extended period of time will grant the player a small boost.

- Weight:
- (L) = Light Weight. (has a very good acceleration and off road, but low speed)
	- (M) = Medium Weight. (all stats are balanced)
	- (H) = Heavy Weight. (dives on high speed, but the acceleration runs low)
Wiki, C. T. P. (n.d.). Pac-Man World Rally. Pac-Man Wiki. https://pacman.fandom.com/wiki/Pac-Man_World_Rally#Characters

