# Advice Document
Here all my research documents will from the deep dive will be linked. For each of these documents a piece of advice will be written, to accommodate the learning outcome advice.

[Karting Game Analysis](2.%20Karting%20Game%20Analysis.md)
After researching these 3 games I’d advise myself to prioritize the development of acceleration, top speed, steering, drifting, and boosting mechanics. These core driving mechanics, shared across Mario Kart, Sonic and Sega All Stars Racing, and Pac-Man Rally, form the foundation of the arcade racing gameplay when looking at it from a driving perspective. 

[Kart System](3.%20Deep%20Dive/3.%20Kart%20System.md)
Because of time constraints on this project I have recommended myself to make my karts based on a rigid body which rotates to make it look like you are driving. For anyone with the same time constraints I would recommend the same, if you are trying to develop an arcade style racing game, with the same requirements as me. The reasoning being that wheel colliders are a bit too realistic and would be more confusing to adjust in a scriptable object. The custom suspension would simply be a project on its own and thus take too much time.

But if you are creating arcade karts in Unity and have no time constraints, I recommend implementing a custom suspension system using raycasts. This approach offers more control, allowing for the flexible tuning of arcade physics without the intricacies and limitations of Unity’s Wheel Colliders. Custom suspension simplifies the process of adjusting vehicle parameters through scriptable objects, ensuring quick setup by users of your product, ensuring consistent behavior across different models.
