# What impact does the addition of a dash feature to the player movement prototype have on identifying necessary adjustments to the game?
A dash feature was added to the basic movement prototype, to give play testers a quick feel of what the movement in our game will be like. The dash is an important feature for the game to give it a fast paced feel, so collecting feedback as soon as possible is of importance. 

## How did I solve this?
I knew how to make a dash mechanic, so the challenge was to make it feel good in the game. To do this, the force of the dash and the cancellation of the momentum needed to be finely tuned. I adjusted the parameters, ensuring that the dash felt swift yet controllable. Canceling momentum was equally important, otherwise it would disrupt the flow of gameplay. Players could be sliding in the direction they were dashing, after the dash was already done.
To solve this I made a dash timer and dash speed, after the timer runs out all momentum from the dash is instantly canceled. This will result in the short burst of movement speed we were looking for.

## What is the result?
I now have a short dash that can be modified in the inspector. The direction is chosen with player input and there is no unwanted after effect.

## What is the quality of the result?
For now the feature and code have been reviewed by my group. Improvements have been made based on feedback received from the group.

## What is the next step now that I have this result?
The prototype for the movement is done, it will be used as a blueprint for the final product.
