# New controller support
I have implemented controller support before in Crusadeon, but with the introduction of the new ability system and indicators, I would need to reimplement support for controllers. This has become one of the more important since the night of the nerds playtest, where close to everyone that came by played with a controller instead of keyboard and mouse.

## How did I solve this?
The choice of how the new ability system and indicators should work on the controller were the only obstacle in implementing this system. How were abilities going to be aimed? What would be the best button layout? Should we deviate from the norm? To answer these questions I brainstormed together with my groupmates, before implementing the new controller support.

## What is the result?
We have decided on a default control scheme for Crusadeon on controller. It is laid out as:

|Action|Button|
|:-:|:-:|
|Movement|Left Stick|
|Dash|Right Trigger|
|Basic Attack|Button West|
|Ability Slot 1|Right Bumper|
|Ability Slot 2|Left Bumper|
|Ability Slot 3|Left Trigger|
|Aiming Abilities|Right Stick|

We have chosen this layout to give the player the options to aim abilities behind them while moving in the opposite direction. This way it is also possible to aim an ability and attack at the same time, which in return should provide a more aggressive playstyle.

|  |Method|
|:-|:----:|
|Workshop|Brainstorm, Prototyping, Code review|

## What is the quality of the result?
The feature has been tested in the final playtest and the result ([which can be read here](../4.%20Playtests/9.%20Final%20Test%20Report.md)), were not as I had hoped. Bugs with the indicators made it so that aiming abilities with the controller wasn't ideal and the lack of keybind customization was brought up, since we staryed from a normalized control scheme. In the end the bugs with the controller made it unpleasant to play with and did not help with the player's experience.

|  |Method|
|:-|:----:|
|Field|Survey, Observation|
|Lab|Usability testing|


## What is the next step now that I have this result?
With the short time we have left, an attempt will be made to fix some bugs with the controller support, so it will be a pleasant experience to use it.
